Crystal Melting
===============

Molecular liquids crystallise seven orders of magnitude slower than metals[^1], with no real
understanding of this difference. This is a project to understand the slow crystallisation and
melting behaviour of molecular crystals, using an asymmetric two dimensional particle as a simple
model of a molecular system.

Dependencies
------------

All the dependencies for the project are managed using conda. Once conda is installed ([link to
guide][conda installation]), all dependencies can be installed with the command

```shell
conda env update
```

This creates an *environment*---a self contained collection of software which only has local scope;
that is the software is accessible only when the environment is active and software outside the
environment is unaffected. This environment can be activated by running

```shell
conda activate crystal
```

Data
----

### Subset of Data

A subset of the dataset is available for download from [Zenodo][crystal melting dataset]. This dataset demonstrates the melting
behaviour of the crystals studied in this project across the range of crystal structures and from
temperatures slightly below to slightly above the melting point.

### Raw Data

The entire dataset associated with this project is too large to store in any version control
repository, currently standing at many terabytes. The raw datafiles can be regenerated by re-running
the simulations in the `data/simulations` directory. Using the melting simulation as an example this
can be done with

```shell
experi -f data/simulations/melting/experiment.yml
```

It is recommended to run this command on a HPC which is running a PBS scheduler like Torque or
PBSPro, identifiable by requiring `qsub` command to submit jobs. This command will submit a series
of batch jobs containing all the combinations of variables.


### Processed Data

I don't currently have a good method of making the processed data available. It's dynamic nature
makes publishing at this point in time not a particularly useful option.

[^1]: Orava, J., & Greer, A. L. (2014). Fast and slow crystal growth kinetics in glass-forming melts. Journal of Chemical Physics, 140(21), 214504. https://doi.org/10.1063/1.4880959

[conda installation]: https://conda.io/docs/user-guide/install/index.html
[crystal melting dataset]: http://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.1315097
