Solid State Phase Transition
============================

This is an interesting phenomenon,
especially in that there is both motion from the p2gg to the p2
and from p2 to p2gg.
That is, both the p2 and the p2gg crystals have this behaviour taking place.
In some senses this does make thermodynamic sense,
both the crystal structures have the same energetics
and so to maximise the entropy the alternate structure is preferred.
What is rather intriguing though is the speed of this transition,
taking place on a timescale far faster than that of the melting transition.
The timescale of this transition ($~5 \times 10^6$ steps) 
is on the same order of magnitude at that of any of the rotational relaxation times.
This is cooperative motion involving many particles, 
that occurs on timescale of an average particle motion,
that's weird.
Most notably because the motion is linear across the crystal,
one molecule has to rearrange before the next,
a propagation of defects with a fast kinetic pathway.

Additionally what is also really unusual is what appears to be an equilibrium of these two solid states.
At both temperatures of 1.30 and 1.35 both initial conditions,
p2 and p2gg appear to have the same final concentration of each crystal,
a concentration that is different at the two temperatures.
This doesn't hold true at the higher temperature of 1.40, 
although that is also when the crystal starts melting.

Despite all this interesting behaviour,
it is entirely possible that these results are a result of the boundary conditions.
I was running the simulations with periodic boundaries in both directions,
however the p2 crystal has a non-orthorhombic unit cell 
which I am trying to force into an orthorhombic box.
With later simulations of the interface,
most notably the lower pressure simulations,
I have created a liquid crystal boundary in both dimensions,
which means that I no longer have this issue of strain affecting the crystal.

Next Steps
----------

This behaviour is really interesting,
however the possibility of outside forces affecting the results
makes it a little difficult to draw hard conclusions.
To make this more definitive I will need to run some additional simulations,
this time with the crystal having liquid on all sides
to remove any strain forces.

Why is this Interesting
-----------------------

Assuming that this is an observation of the propagation of a defect in the crystal
which is faster than the liquid state dynamics,
this is potentially really interesting for solid state materials
which desire transport properties.
Here we have what appears to be really fast transport of a defect,
which if understood and replicated could be the fast transport of an ion,
of a gas, of whatever you want.
Additionally the apparently equilibrium behaviour is even better,
since this would be to some degree self healing.
And should this be an equilibrium state,
that would be really cool since we can't get equilibrated dynamics at 1.30 after billions of steps,
yet in tens of millions we have solid state equilibrium.
