Finding Bugs
============

It seems today was the day to find all the disastrous bugs.
The most significant was working out I had been running 
a series of billion step simulations on a single core
despite requesting 12.
This is really really bad since the simulations have been running for weeks,
so now I am completely starting them again.

I am considering this a bug with experi,
in that there isn't a simple method
to specify a prefix for all the commands.
I do already have an issue malramsay64/experi#21 
however this appears to be fairly serious issue
with the discovery of this particular bug.
Additionally another check that could be useful
is ensuring that the number of processors
in the job request is the same as for the `mpirun` directive,
requiring confirmation where it is not.
This will only be applicable for simulations using mpi,
however at the moment that is what I am using
for all the parallel parts of the code.
There are other checks that could be done
to verify other types of parallelism.

In addition to the bug with actually running the simulation,
I found a rather annoying bug in how I was defining the input files.
Since I am unable to have multiple keys which are the same,
having multiple `zip` keys is not possible,
which is rather frustrating.
I think the solution I will attempt to implement
is having a list under the `zip` keyword,
with each of the elements in the list being constructed 
with the zip operator.

Part of the appeal of using experi was to remove many of the bugs I was encountering.
It turns out that I mm just replacing those bugs for new ones.
At least this time I have some degree of control over the implementation
allowing me to make the changes where I identify issues in the process.
I guess my idea is that me making a mistake is a bug in the interface,
being too difficult to use,
or that there are insufficient checks of the process.
Mistakes occur because of design errors
at some point within the process.
It is an I screwed up because 
this program I was using didn't suit the purpose I was using it for.
It doesn't matter what the application is,
command line, gui, website,
where the user is able to do something they didn't intend to do
which could cause a significant problem,
like only utilising 1/12th of the available processing power,
there should be some checks in place to prevent that .
