Monte Carlo Methods
===================

With our inability to pin down the melting point using Molecular Dynamics we are looking to other tools that could provide a method of accurately calculating the melting point of each of our crystals. The proposals for this are either free energy methods using thermodynamic integration, or alternatively using some kind of Monte Carlo to speed up the simulations.

## Free Energy Methods

The primary issue with these methods is that calculating the melting point requires finding the intersection of the free energy of the liquid and crystal phases as a function of temperature; two slopes which are typically very similar. The similarity of each of these slopes means that to accurately determine where the two lines cross, you need to calculate the slopes of these lines to a high accuracy which is typically non-trivial.

Additionally the free energy needs to be calculated for both the liquid and the crystal, each of which is time consuming and difficult. The method we would be using, from Some author  [@someone], has not been used in out group before and so there is going to be a lot of trial and error trying to get everything working.

## Monte Carlo

An alternative to the Free Energy methods is to use Monte Carlo simulations to run the simulations. This enables us to significantly speed up the 'dynamics' by not actually calculating them, instead only interested in the lowest free energy structure at each temperature. With this method we should be able to see the progression from melting to freezing behaviour, hence providing an estimation of the melting point which should be reasonably accurate.

There are a number of different methods which can be used for MC simulations. Running the gamut from using MC steps interspersed with MD steps to speed up elements of the dynamics like the super slow rotations, to a complete MC simulation with no dynamics.

One of the methods suggested by Peter is to 'swap' one of the small particles of the trimer with a virtual particle, effectively rotating the molecule 120 degrees. While this will likely help with speeding up the dynamics there are possibly a few issues that need to be hashed out beforehand.

1. How is this 'swap' any different to a rotation of $120^\circ$? The updating of the orientation of the molecule is an operation which is regularly performed, i.e. it is simple. Moving particles around and updating the internal state of the molecule is far more complicated.
2. Is this swap idea any different to a MC simulation with rotations? I have found the software [FEASST](https://pages.nist.gov/feasst/index.html) which appears to be able to conduct the MC simulations I would require with the exception of the 'swap' algorithm, though I haven't worked out how to install it yet.
3. MD + MC vs MC. Do we want dynamics? Only using MC on the rotations provides a nice comparison of how the rotational motion influences the overall dynamics. If the MC step is a rotation, I can calculate the dynamics with no further change to code or algorithms.
