Normalised Melting Rates
=============

I have finally captured the required data for the calculation of the melting rates normalised by the dynamics. The idea is to be able to identify what fraction of the melting behaviour can be attributed to the slowdown in dynamics and whether there are additional affects which would need to be considered.

Currently I only have the data from the low-pressure systems, since I have had more issues getting the high pressure simulations working properly. Thee results I do see though which are presented in the [melting dynamics](../notebooks/Melting_Dynamics.ipynb) notebook do seem to indicate that there is a greater slowdown than can be attributed to the dynamics.

When plotting the melting rate which is calculated by

\[
\text{melting rate} = \frac{\Delta (\text{Area}/\text{Perimeter})}{\Delta t}
\]

multiplied by the rotational relaxation time $\langle \tau_{\pi/4} \rangle$, we get a value which is kind of the melting rate per timescale.

The resulting value for the low pressure appears to first decrease, indicative a slowdown of the melting rate which is faster than the rotational relaxation time, this is then followed by a sharp uptick in the value. This sharp sharp would be contrary to our initial hypothesis that the slow melting is not just attributable to the dynamics.

Investigating this effect further, the values of the melting rate at the lower temperatures are all tiny, on the order of 1a-9. Since I am running simulations for this many timesteps this is a change of 1% over the entire simulation run; a value well within the error of my crystal detection. This would indicate it would make more sense to set the melting rate of these values to 0, which would then give a purely downward trend.

I would like to also have the high pressure data to compare with before making any large assertions, particularly since in a way I am manipulating the raw data to produce a result which supports my hypothesis. Additionally it may be a good idea to get the errors in the slope for the melting rates. They are quantities I am already calculating, although I don't think the resulting values are getting saved anywhere at this point.
