Crystal Melting Results
=======================

I thought that all the crystal melting results were ready for analysis, however when actually diving into the results this turned out to not be the case. None of the updated results I thought I had collected actually worked, and now I have to get everything to work again.

## High Pressure Interface

I have already finished and analysed the results for the melting rate of the high pressure interface. This work has been completed for a while. The problem with the results I have already collected is that they use a different system to the one I am currently using. In the old high pressure simulations, the interface is vertical from one edge of the box to the other which is a very simple approach to finding the melting rate. These old simulations have the issue that the crystal structures are not all orthorhombic, meaning the crystal can be pushed into shape modifying the melting behaviour. To solve these issues with the older simulations I created a new type of interface, which is a blob of crystal completely surrounded by the liquid.In these new simulations the periodic boundary is felt by the liquid which is much less affected by an arbitrary choice in size.

The simulations using the new liquid--crystal interface, located in the directory `data/simulations/2018-04-03-highP`, have not formed the interface in the equilibration phase. Which means we are unable to properly observe the melting or crystallisation behaviour. Somewhat notable in this simulation is the lack of the solid state phase transition of p2gg to p2 I had observed in the old interface simulations. This could indicate, assuming it is confirmed in later simulations, that the change to the new type of interface was a good idea, removing strain induced by the boundary conditions.

To hopefully fix the issues from this previous set of calculations, I have set up a new series of simulations. These simulations melt the interface for 10 times as long at a slightly higher temperature, a change which should result in complete melting. I have also halved the time of the production simulations since I want to get these finished.

A big plus is being able to use the experiment.yml files to easily tweak and re-run an experiment. Not having to worry about remembering which parameters were used, or what arcane magic was used to create the simulation. It just works. Also it is super easy to come back to and understand.

## Failures

**Monitoring simulation progress**

I don't have really simple methods of managing the progress of all the different simulations I am running at a time. I am supposed to be running jobs on Quartz, Artemis, and Raijin, yet I have enough trouble setting up just the environment for a single machine, let alone checking whether the jobs are running and the output is sensible. I think a lot of the changes I am making should be winding down, the use of pyenv over conda seems to be working. I have been solving some of the more unusual bugs like conda installing to the global pip environment. My ansible playbooks are getting there although I really need to work on using them, and using iTerm is making using multiple machines simpler.

Rather useful would be a monitoring service that just showed the status of all my jobs on all systems. Just a single display which gives an overview of everything at a single glance. Although this is something that will probably take significant time to setup. An alternative and possibly simpler solution might be using the email alerts on the completion or error of a job. Some email rules would be relatively straightforward to setup and provide some control over the alerting.

The other part of this is the sdanalysis figure which both doesn't deal well with remote connections and also requires being the correct directory. By taking the control of the server into my program, I am able to create multiple sites, which I use to setup servers for either the Dynamics or the Crystal Melting projects. Coupled with some configuration of the nginx connection on bohr this could work relatively well...maybe. There is also a small technical challenge in making the error handling far better, since it currently will only work when all the values are just right. The error handling of the bokeh server is awesome which makes this currently workable, albeit not necessarily great.
