Cluster Analysis
================

Further to the analysis of the clusters
is to start investigating some properties of formation.
A property which has been commonly calculated in the literature is
the energy penalty of a defect.
This energy penalty $E_{dislocation}$
can be decomposed into

$$ E_{dislocation} = E_{elastic} + E_{core} $$

where $E_{elastic}$ is the energy penalty of the bulk crystal,
that is the deformation of the crystal around the defect,
and $E_{core}$ is the energy penalty of the defect itself.

Typically it has been assumed that $E_{core}$ is small,
with most of the additional energy of the defect
coming from the strain of the crystal to accommodate it.
However, with these trimer crystals
the defects we have observed are quite large,
comprised of four to six molecules
which have a significantly lower density than that of the bulk crystal.

The hypothesis we are interested in testing
is that because these defects are rather large
they potentially have a lot of energy
which goes against the common assumption about the defects.
Furthermore, we hypothesise that the large energy of the core
is a result of the anisotropy,
so as we reduce the anisotropy of the molecules
the energy in the core should be reduced as well.

## Experimental Design

### Clustering Analysis

A rudimentary analysis of the energy
is a comparison of the density
between the bulk crystal and the defect.
Finding the density of the defect requires

1. identification of the defect
2. finding an outline of the defect
3. calculating the density from the size of the outline and number of particles
   contained within
4. Comparison with the density of the crystal.

Rather conveniently the clustering analysis I have been working on
will be really useful for this identification and outlining.
I believe that the supervised learning algorithms will be suitable
for distinguishing the bulk crystal and the defect,
with the strain of the crystal probably not too influential.

For the detection detection of the outlines,
the spatial clustering I have been working on
should be a treat,
although since the defects appear in pairs
I will need three classes.
The defects I am interested in
are those that appear in the corners of the removed crystals.
These are separated from each other by
the standard crystal on one side
and an elongated crystal on the other,
forming when the number of removed particles
is roughly half the number of molecules along a crystal direction.

The calculation of the density will then
involve the counting of the number of molecules in a cluster
followed by taking the convex hull and resulting area.

### Energy Calculations

There are three distinct densities which can be calculated
using the data from the clustering analysis.

1. $N_{initial crystal} / V_{initial_crystal}$
2. $N_{defect} / V_{defect}$
3. $(N_{strained} - N_{defect}) / (V_{strained} - V_{defect})$

Where the initial crystal is the thermally relaxed crystal
before any of the particles have been removed,
and the volume being calculated from the size of the simulation box.
The defect N and V is calculated as above,
and the strained crystal is the thermally relaxed configuration
from which the defects are identified.

These three densities should provide an indication of
the energy of both the core and crystal components.

### Anisotropy

Along with the analysis of how the energy changes for a single molecular shape,
there is also an analysis of the effect through a range of shapes.
The parameter which makes the most sense to adjust
is the distance of the small particles from the center,
which will create the smallest change beyond the anisotropy.

To get the crystal structures for these adjusted shapes
I can use Toby's 2D packing algorithm.
I will just need to improve the interface for getting
the output parameters from Toby's program
as the input parameters to my program.
This should be significantly easier
with the source code to work off.
