Melting Results
===============


The simulations from [2018-02-05](2018-02-05.md) have finished running
and I have had the opportunity to inspect the results.
Above a temperature of T=0.50, the melting occurs incredibly quickly,
with the crystal phase disappearing within 400 000 timesteps.
The pg crystal is the slowest to melt,
with both the p2 and p2gg taking about half the time to melt.
Despite the short melting times,
it appears as though all the melting occurs
around the edges of the crystal phase.
There doesn't appear to be any formation of defects within the crystal phase,
although I don't have configurations spaced close enough together
to be able to really investigate at the higher temperatures.

Somewhat problematic with investigating these simulations
is that my machine learning code is currently not working,
or at least the currently installed version isn't.
Even less helpful is the lack of a real version number in the build.

Investigating the lower temperatures,
the melting point seems to be somewhere between 0.35 and 0.40
although I don't have long enough simulations to see this
and it is difficult to see growth or melting.

Next Steps
----------

There are a few things that are going to be interesting to continue to investigate.

1) Fix the issues with the machine learning algorithms.
    This will likely just be installing the latest version of sdanalysis.
2) Run simulations between T=0.30 and T=0.45 which are much longer.
    From this I should observe the melting properly.
3) Analyse the current simulations plotting the fraction of each crystal at each stage.
4) Run larger simulations at all temperatures in an attempt to observe changes in
    the way the crystal melts.


### 1. Machine Learning

This was indeed an issue with not being the latest version,
although the whole versioning has been a little weird 
with my crusade to fix the deployment problem.
I have updated everything and incremented the version number to 0.4.6,
to ensure everything is updated.
Additionally I have pinned the sdanalysis dependency in this repository's
environment.yml file as 0.4.6.

#### Versioning

I have had some issues with versioning,
ensuring that both sdanalysis and sdrun have dependencies that overlap.
The issue this time has been numpy,
I didn't have the conda_build_config file in sdrun
which meant it was using numpy 1.11
which wasn't supported with sdanalysis.
I have fixed this problem up now
and the packages should be compatible
however there are likely to be issues down the road.

### 2. Simulations

I have set up a series of simulations to 
probe close to the melting point at P=1.0.
These simulations are all running for 1 billion steps,
with quadruple the number of particles.
