Melting Rates
=============

I need to be able to compute the melting rates at 
each of the various parameters I have data for.
The first step of getting the melting rate is
to compute the proportion of each species 
as a function of time.
For this I am using the machine learning classifiers
which have provided classification which is excellent for the purpose.

Analysis of Melting Rates
-------------------------

I have performed some analysis of the melting rates of both low and high pressures
with results in the notebook [Crystal Melting](/notebooks/Crystal_Fractions.ipynb).
Some observations about the melting rates;
- The p2gg crystal is unstable, undergoing a solid state phase transition to the p2 crystal
    - This phase transition doesn't go to completion so it would appear there are grain boundary like effects
- At low pressures the melting is significantly faster than high pressures, although still no freezing observed
- At low pressures all the crystals melt at about the same rate, with a small deviation between them,
    while at high pressures the melting of the pg crystal occurs significantly faster.
- The faster melting rate of the pg crystal implies that our assessment of the p2 crystal being the preferred state is correct.

While I have been comparing the two pressure ranges,
the lower pressure results are from a significantly shorter timescale
as the simulations at the longer timescales are yet to finish.
When last checked on (2017-03-16), the equilibration runs are nearly finished
so the production runs of these systems will begin shortly.
Additionally these simulations are of larger systems which should give nicer results.
