Dynamics at a Crystal Surface
=============================

It is reasonably well established that dynamics at a liquid--crystal interface in a flow are different to that of the bulk liquid. This is also why we use periodic boundary conditions in our simulations, removing the effects of the boundary. It it logical that the dynamics near a crystal surface will be measurably different to those in the bulk liquid. We hypothesise that the dynamics, primarily the rotations, slow down significantly near the crystal interface resulting in the phenomenally slow crystal growth we have been observing.

To validate that the dynamics are phenomenally slow at the interface I need to calculate a spatial distribution of both local ordering and dynamics. Currently my algorithms are not set up to deal with these properties, although I may not need huge modifications to algorithms. In my current computation of dynamics I retain the molecule ID each dynamic quantity refers to in the index, which with a join operation I could link to the spatial and structural data.

Being able to link spatial and structural data is fine, however, this data is spatial while the dynamics are temporal. The nature of the dynamic quantities is that molecules move breaking the direct link between the spatial and temporal components. We are most interested in the first passage rotational relaxation time $\tau_{\pi/4}$ which is also represented as $\tau_{R2}$ in our dynamics paper. I will need to make assumptions like the starting position dictating the spatial component even though the molecule will likely move outside the space. A method of alleviating this issue is to bin the spatial data such that motion on the timescale of $\tau_{\pi/2}$ is the size of the bin.

The other quantity that will need some analysis is the structure. Here I want to distinguish between all the different crystal phases, mostly to make it clear that there are no other types of order forming in the simulation. I think that by averaging the structural determination over the timescale of the dynamics, I will capture the most representative structure. The structure I observe at any instantaneous point in time has a very sharp transition to the liquid. Averaging the structure over time will soften this transition, although it also demonstrates the phenomenally slow melting/growth.
