Instantaneous thermalisation of configurations
==============================================

Hoomd doesn't have a function which will initialise the configurations with the requisite energy for
a particular temperature. To date I have been just ignoring the issue, starting a simulation at a
low temperature and letting ten thermostat dump energy into the system. The issue with this approach
is that there are significant fluctuations associated with the addition of the thermalisation which
can disorder the structure and cause other weirdness in the initialisation.

There are two steps to the initialisation of the energy, the calculation of the amount of energy to
be distributed, and the random distribution of the energy amongst the different degrees of freedom.
The first step I am going to perform second, rescaling the random velocities generated to match the
desired temperature. As for the random number generation, the distribution of energies should
obey the Boltzmann distribution, which is provided in the scipy library.

From the Boltzmann distribution I will calculate the magnitude of the rotation or the translation,
which will then be randomly assigned a unit vector. This step will look like the below code snippet
which was provided by [Bram Cohen](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/6283080/random-unit-vector-in-multi-dimensional-space)
as an answer to this question on stack exchange.

```python
from random import gauss

def make_rand_vector(dims):
    vec = [gauss(0, 1) for i in range(dims)]
    mag = sum(x**2 for x in vec) ** .5
    return [x/mag for x in vec]
```

The rotations will be somewhat simpler, since in 2D they are only one of two dimensions. Although
for quaternions it is likely possible to use the above technique.[^1]

From looking at equilibrated simulations it looks like the standard deviation of the energy within a
configurations is about 2%. I will use this result to determine the width of the Boltzmann
distribution.

As for the rescaling, it is possible to use the Hoomd function `hoomd.md.update.rescale_temp`
function, which uses the equipartition theorem to set the energies according to;

$$
\begin{align}
  \begin{aligned}
    \langle 1/2 m v^2 \rangle = k_B T \\
    \langle 1/2 I \omega^2 \rangle = k_B T
  \end{aligned}
\end{align}
$$

This function will perform the rescaling regularly during a simulation, while it is possible to run
a simulation a single step to perform a rescaling, I would like to be able to do this without having
to deal with initialising Hoomd. The rotational and translational motions will each be rescaled
independently, which means that only the rescaling function needs to worry about any of the
simulation variables.

One thing I think will vary the equations above is the dimensionality of my system. In a 3D system
there are 3 translational and 3 rotational degrees of freedom, while in a 2D system there are 2
translational and 1 rotational. In this case the equations above will be modified to take this into
account.

\begin{align}
  \begin{aligned}
    \langle 1/2 m v^2 \rangle = k_B T \\
    2\langle 1/2 I \omega^2 \rangle = k_B T
  \end{aligned}
\end{align}

I am not sure if this is the only modification required, although it is possible to test using the
Hoomd function as a reference.

[^1]: As an aside it is likely that this random generation technique will work better for my random
generation of quaternions in the sdanalysis tests.
