Dynamics Analysis
=================

I have the data from dynamics simulations which match the conditions of the crystal melting simulations which is ready for the computation of dynamics. Having these values computed will provide a point of reference for the rate of crystal melting.

We are hypothesising that the slow down of the crystal melting is slower than the dynamics which would indicate some other process being involved. By comparing the melting rates with the crystal melting rates, we will be able to make an assessment of our hypothesis.

Failure
-------

In attempting to compute the dynamics for the low temperature simulations, I encountered a devious problem. While all the output files were present and appeared to contain data, having sizes comparable to the high pressure simulations, none of the data was readable. Every snapshot contained 0 particles.

This issue took a long time to solve as I didn't have the error checking in place to handle snapshots with 0 particles. I assumed all the input data is well formed. As a good outcome of this issue, I now check on the creation of the dynamics class that the initialisation has a length > 0. This also applies to the calculation of the dynamic quantities, handling the case of length 0 with more noise as to the actual problem. There is still some work to be done in this regards though. Primarily raising exceptions/assertions when the length of the input is 0 in the dynamics calculations, and additionally testing that those errors and exceptions are raised.

I was not particularly interested in spending hours trying to work out why these snapshots contained 0 particles, so instead I just reran the simulations. Running the simulations is easy thanks to the experiment.yml files, although some modifications were necessary for the updated environment---using pyenv instead of conda.


