Understanding Free Energy
=========================


The free energy of the liquid and crystal phases are important quantities in finding the melting point, the value at which these quantities intersect. These quantities are difficult to obtain through simulation, requiring the integration over a degree of freedom---often introduced---to calculate.

In my initial attempt at calculating the free energy of the crystal, I based my work on that of Aragones et. al. [@Aragones2013]. This choice of paper has turned out to be a poor decision, primarily because the method used for the calculation is both complex and poorly described. The basic idea is calculating the crystal free energy from the energies of:

- The Einstein Crystal, which is the energy of the crystal when particles are interacting on a harmonic lattice.
- The difference between the energy of the Einstein Crystal and the crystal with the atomic potentials
- Integrating over a range of values for the harmonic spring constant.

Even after reading the paper multiple times, I still don't understand what experiments the authors actually performed. The writing of the article does more to obfuscate the research rather than communicate.

I have an alternative reference for finding the free energy of the crystal, "Understanding Molecular Simulations" by Frenkel and Smidt [@Frenkel1996]. While this explains some cases for calculating the free energy of molecular solids, the final sentence of the section summarises the usefulness to me: "The details of this scheme depend of the nature of the orientational order."

With my first attempt at an alternative reference being thwarted, I came across a paper by Noya et. al. [@Noya2009] --- which is basically a book --- detailing the method for computing the free energy of a crystal using the Einstein Molecule method. This name is a derivation of the name of the method it is based on, the Einstein Crystal. An Einstein Crystal is where the integration takes place using a harmonic potential around the lattice positions. This approach doesn't work properly with molecular rotations for some reason. I don't understand why, only there are no papers detailing the use of an Einstein Crystal for symmetrical molecular crystal.

The Einstein Molecule differs from the Einstein crystal in that a single molecule doesn't vibrate, acting as a reference point. A reasoning for equivalence with the Einstein Crystal is that an infinitely heavy particle wouldn't move. This is a significantly better explanation of the simulations described by Aragones et. al.
