Thermodynamics
==============

The most important equation when dealing with the thermodynamics of a system is

$$ E_{DOF} = \frac{1}{2} k_B T$$

That is, the energy of each degree of freedom (DOF) is directly related to the temperature. For a
system in reduced Lennard-Jones (LJ) units where $k_B = 1$ this relationship then becomes

$$ E_{DOF} = \frac{1}{2} T$$

Note that this is the average energy of the degree of freedom, averaged over all the motions within
that degree of freedom. For a simulation of asymmetric particles in 2D, there are two translational
degrees of freedom and a rotational degree of freedom, making the total energy;

$$ E_{TOT} = \frac{3}{2} T$$

By the [equipartition theorem], this energy is evenly divided to each of the degrees of freedom, so
the translational kinetic energy $E_{T}$ will be

$$ E_{T} = T = \frac{1}{2}mv^2$$

while the rotational kinetic energy $E_{R}$ will be

$$ E_{R} = \frac{1}{2}T = \frac{1}{2}I\omega^2$$

These equations provide a route to confirming the temperature of a snapshot, by using the momentum
data provided in the snapshot. It is possible to rearrange these equations to calculate the values
for $v$ and $\omega$ which can be used to randomly initialise the configurations. This gives

$$ v = \sqrt{\frac{2T}{m}} $$

and

$$ \omega = \sqrt{\frac{T}{I}} $$

## Simulations

After calculating these values for my simulations, it appears that Hoomd is using the mass of the
central particle for the thermodynamic calculations. This means all the results are for a light
molecule with an increased moment of inertia. This does somewhat explain the phenomenally slow
rotations we have been observing, the rotational velocity is proportionally slower since the moment
of inertia is calculated for a particle of mass 3.

Something interesting about this is that the results I obtained initially during my Honours project
are very similar to the results I have now. Most notably the melting point. This does make sense
for the idea that the rotational motion is driving the translational motion.

## Implementation

After spending all this time working out how to implement this feature myself, I find out that the
random initialisation is available in the `nve` integration function of Hoomd. This is far simpler
than any solution I am trying to implement, particularly due to the weirdness in the way the angular
momentum is calculated.

An issue with the Hoomd implementation is that it is introduced in Hoomd 2.3.0, which is later than
I am currently using. Maybe this is the point at which I switch to using docker containers for the
reproducibility part of my simulations. I do have to make significant changes to just about
everything anyway so this move is somewhat timed appropriately.

[equipartition theorem]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Equipartition_theorem

